add new EDA server labs and refactor (#215)
puzzle/ansible-training: content/en/docs/11/03/_index.en.md

---
title: 11.3. EDA-Server
weight: 113
sectionnumber: 11
---

In this lab we will learn how to use EDA-Server to run our rulebooks. Some tasks have to be done on Ascender.

### Task 1

To connect your EDA-Server to your Ansible Controller, you have to create an access token on Ascender and add it to EDA-Server

* On Ascender, create an access token for the user Ansible. Be sure to chose the write scope
* On EDA-Server add this controller token to the user Ansible

{{% details title="Solution Task 1" %}}

Go to the Ascender Web-GUI

* On the left hand side, chose `Access`, then `Users`

> * Click on user `ansible`, then chose the tab `Tokens` and klick on the blue butten `Add`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click on user `ansible`, then chose the tab `Tokens` and click on the blue button `Add`
```

* Leave the `Application` field empty, add a description and chose the write scope.
* Click the `Save` button. Copy the Token from the popup window. This token is shown only once, so remember it.

Go to the EDA-Server Web-GUI

> * On the left hand side, chose `User Access` and then `Users`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the left-hand side, chose `User Access` and then `Users`
```

* On the right, chose user `ansible`

> * Now to to the tab `Controller Tokens`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now to the tab `Controller Tokens`
```

* Click on the button `Create controller token`. If you created already one, you have to delete it first to be able to create a new one.
* Enter a name, a description and paste in the token from Ascender in the `Token` field

{% /details %}}

### Task 2

Now we add a git repository with our rulebooks as a project to EDA-Server

> * Be sure, your ansible rulebooks are residing in a toplevel folder "rulebooks" inside your git repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Be sure, your ansible rulebooks are residing in a top level folder "rulebooks" inside your git repository
```
